docs(langgraph): document custom stream channels (useExtension vs useChannel) (#4352)
langchain-ai/docs: src/oss/langgraph/frontend/custom-stream-channels.mdx

---
title: Custom stream channels
description: Stream custom server-side data to the frontend and read it with useExtension and useChannel
---

LangGraph agents stream more than messages and tool calls. A server-side
**stream transformer** can inspect or rewrite the protocol as it flows to the
client and publish its own structured data on a named **custom channel**. The
frontend reads that channel with two selectors: `useExtension` for the latest

> payload, and `useChannel` as a raw-events escape hatch.

Reviewer: Can we link to the reference docs for `useExtension` and `useChannel`?

The example below is a customer-support agent whose transformer redacts PII
(emails, phone numbers, SSNs, card numbers, IPs) from every event before it
reaches the browser, and publishes running redaction counts on a
`redaction-stats` channel. The side panel renders those counts live.

import { PatternEmbed } from "/snippets/pattern-embed.jsx"
import UseStreamTypeInference from '/snippets/oss/use-stream-type-inference.mdx';

<PatternEmbed pattern="custom-stream-channel" />

## How custom channels work

A custom channel has two ends. On the server, a `StreamTransformer` opens a

> named `StreamChannel` and pushes payloads onto it. On the client, a selector

Reviewer: same here

`event.params.data`. Unwrap it yourself:

```ts
function parseRedactionStatsEvents(rawEvents: Event[]): RedactionStatsEvent[] {
  const out: RedactionStatsEvent[] = [];
  for (const event of rawEvents) {
    const data = event.params?.data;
    const payload = data?.payload ?? data;
    if (payload?.kind === "update") out.push(payload);
  }
  return out;
}
```

Control the buffer with the options argument:

```ts
const rawEvents = useChannel(
  stream,
  ["custom:redaction-stats"],
  undefined, // target namespace
  { bufferSize: 200, replay: true },
);
```

| Option | Default | Effect |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `bufferSize` | `"default"` | Maximum number of buffered events. Older events drop once the cap is reached. |
| `replay` | `true` | Replay events already seen on the channel when the selector mounts, instead of only live events. |

<Note>
Prefer the higher-level selectors (`useExtension`, `useMessages`,
`useToolCalls`, `useValues`) for common cases. They return typed, unwrapped
values and track only what you render. Use `useChannel` when you specifically
need the raw event stream.
</Note>

## Choosing between `useExtension` and `useChannel`

> Both read the same custom channel; they differ in what they give back.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Both read the same custom channel but differ in what they return:
```
